the American Dental Association says
tooth whitening has become one of the
most popular cosmetic procedures it's up
more than 300 percent over the past few
years but with laser treatments
whitening kits and all those
over-the-counter strips hard to know
what really works out there so sorting
it all out for us is Linda Wells editor
in chief of Allure magazine and cosmetic
dentist Catrice Austin the author of
five steps to the Hollywood a-list smile
good morning to you ladies well Linda
why did you want to report on teeth
whitening is it as an industry teeth
whitening is so big right now it's
really become a part of grooming and you
realize that every celebrity has white
teeth they've all had bleaching
treatments and so it raises the bar
immediately and it turns out we found
out that after age 30 your teeth start
to aged much the same way your skin does
so bad news but the good news is there's
a lot you can do about it but your
enamel gets thinner and your
discoloration shows so you can start to
deal with it right away and it really
shows your age your smile so and did you
Bree surprise bunny any of the research
we were surprised we were surprised
about some of the things that caused the
darkening of the teeth I think some
things like white wine make your teeth
more vulnerable to darker stain so there
were a lot of surprises in it yes okay
and dr. Austin I mean tooth whitening
not for everyone who first should not
consider doing the tooth whitening
anyone that has tartar buildup cavities
gum disease or may be experiencing
sensitivity shouldn't do the whitening
consult your dentist first and anyone
who has brown or grey discolorations
should not consider them and if you have
a lot of dental restoration crowns or
other kinds of you know mouldings is
that something that's also going to be
affected is enamel gonna be broken down
as we often hear by doing treatments no
the gels are very safe but they won't
whiten your existing dental restorations
so you want to consult with their
dentists again okay so let's talk about
the benefits three different types of
treatment first by a medical
professional in the office what are the
benefits what are the pros and cons well
in the office we use the strongest gels
on the market which can potentially
right in your teeth average of six to
eleven shades whiter in just one hour
and they're great for people who have
mild moderate to severe discoloration
the cost obviously gonna be a little bit
more pretty expensive about six to eight
hundred dollars does it last any longer
because you're getting it in a dentist
office it will last just about the same
as any
that anywhere between a year and a half
to two years depending on your habits
okay now what if they give you those
molds and you get you know the take home
kits then but using their solutions the
at home kits is that any better the gels
aren't as strong as the in-office
whiteness but they are effective great
for anyone who has mild to moderate
discolorations and very convenient and
more cost effective ranging anywhere
between two to four hundred dollars
right so and so the benefits of that is
it is it longer-term - well the benefits
is that is more affordable mostly right
you have more control at home okay and
and then now let's talk about
over-the-counter and there's so many
products on the market right now
over-the-counter I mean it seems like
every day there's something new and and
what really works in your opinion I mean
we we see so much out there anything
that has hydrogen peroxide which is the
active ingredient I love what you have
on the table the Christmas roots are
great most popular in the market and
again they're the most affordable so
anyone who is on a extreme budget this
is an option for you and it actually
works now do you do you have to do these
longer you have to stick with these
things longer to see the results right
seven days three to ten days
it's very the new ones actually only
take three days maybe you can only you
only have to use it for half an hour and
they're actually better than the
over-the-counter trays because the
over-the-counter trays aren't fitted to
your mouth and so right the bleach can
can not hit your teeth or it can
irritate your gums so the crest 3d white
strips they're the highest mass so this
is a Laura tested all of these these are
all the things that you like yeah and so
the the white strips really white and
the teeth right they're not as fast as
the in-office procedure but they're very
effective and then the the Listerine
whitening rinse you can use before you
brush your teeth and it just did some
preventive and it helps a little bit but
it's not the same kind of power as the
Whiting's right and also you can use a
whitening toothpaste easy to use and it
just is a little bit abrasive and it
takes off some of the build-up now some
of the other tips out there which I
thought was very interesting is that you
say you should also eat foods that are
high in cellulose such as as we have
here carrots celery and kale so what
what a new food were to help you're
gonna have a lot of kale right
afterwards but what it does is it just
breaks down some of the bacteria on your
teeth so it helps so if you're drinking
a glass of wine you might want to think
about you know having some crudité with
a wine but i don't know how many people
are gonna have
and that's the other thing wine coffee
those are things so wanted to make
citrus straw well you can treat them to
a straw if you're so inclined
drop the old wine era straw genocide I
say okay but you can put vaseline on
your teeth as well but that also seems a
little extreme the easiest thing to do
is to follow your wine or coffee with a
glass of water because it takes a little
while for the pigments to really get in
there and you can kind of chase it with
water and then you're right healthy and
you don't have the stains all right well
appreciate it as always Linda Wells and
Catrice Austin thank you so much